Add getting started guide for Kubernetes (#9163)
traefik/traefik: docs/content/getting-started/quick-start-with-kubernetes.md

Traefik consumes the Kubernetes API to discover the running services and to unlock its power.

Before being able to consume the Kubernetes API, Traefik needs some permissions.
This permission mechanism is based on roles defines by the cluster administrator.
The role is then bound on an account used by an application, Traefik is this case.  

The first step is to create the role.
The [`ClusterRole`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authorization-resources/cluster-role-v1/#ClusterRole) resource enumerates the resources and actions
available for the role. In a file called `00-role.yml`, put the following `ClusterRole`:

```yaml tab="00-role.yml"
kind: ClusterRole
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: traefik-role

rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - services
      - endpoints
      - secrets
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - extensions
      - networking.k8s.io
    resources:
      - ingresses
      - ingressclasses
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - extensions
    resources:
      - ingresses/status
    verbs:
      - update
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

!!! info "The reference for this file can be found [there](../../reference/dynamic-configuration/kubernetes-crd/#rbac)."

```

The next step is to create an account for Traefik.
In a file called `00-account.yml`, put the following [`ClusterAccount`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/#ServiceAccount) resource:

```yaml tab="00-account.yml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: traefik-account
```

And then, bind the role on the account to apply the permissions and rules on the latter. In a file called `01-role-binding.yml`, put the
following [`ClusterRoleBinding`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authorization-resources/cluster-role-binding-v1/#ClusterRoleBinding) resource:

```yaml tab="01-role-binding.yml"
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: traefik-role-binding

roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: traefik-role
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: traefik-account
    namespace: default # Using "default" because we didn't specify a namespace when creating the ClusterAccount.
```

> !!! info
>     
>     `roleRef` is the kubernetes reference to the role created in `00-role.yml`.
>     
>     `subjects` is the list of accounts reference. In the guilde, it
>     only contains the account created in `00-account.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! info "`roleRef` is the Kubernetes reference to the role created in `00-role.yml`."

!!! info "`subjects` is the list of accounts reference."

    In the guide, it only contains the account created in `00-account.yml`
```

## Deployment and Exposition

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

!!! info "This section can be managed with the help of the [Traefik helm chart](../install-traefik/#use-the-helm-chart)."

```

The [ingress controller](https://traefik.io/glossary/kubernetes-ingress-and-ingress-controller-101/#what-is-a-kubernetes-ingress-controller)
is a software that runs in the same way as any other application on a cluster.

> In order to start Traefik on the Kubernetes cluster,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start Traefik on the Kubernetes cluster,
```

a [`Deployment`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/deployment-v1/) resource must exist to describe how to configure
and scale containers horizontally to support larger workloads.

Start by creating a file called `02-traefik.yml` and paste the following `Deployment` resource:

```yaml tab="02-traefik.yml"
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: traefik-deployment
  labels:
    app: traefik

spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: traefik
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: traefik
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: traefik-account
      containers:
        - name: traefik
          image: traefik:v2.7
          args:
            - --api.insecure
            - --providers.kubernetesingress
          ports:
            - name: web
              containerPort: 80
            - name: dashboard
              containerPort: 8080
```

The deployment contains an important attribute for customizing Traefik: `args`.
These arguments are the static configuration for Traefik.

> From here, it is possible to enable the dashboard, configure entry points,
> select dynamic configuration providers, and [more](../reference/static-configuration/cli.md)...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From here, it is possible to enable the dashboard,
configure entry points,
select dynamic configuration providers,
and [more](../reference/static-configuration/cli.md)...
```

> In this deployment, the static configuration enables the Traefik dashboard and uses Kubernetes native
> ingress resources as router definitions to route incoming requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this deployment,
the static configuration enables the Traefik dashboard
and uses Kubernetes native ingress resources as router definitions to route incoming requests.
```

> !!! info
>     - If there is no entry points in the static configuration,
>       Traefik creates a default one called `web` using the port `80` routing HTTP requests.
>     - When enabling the `api.insecure` mode, Traefik exposes the dashboard on the port `8080`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! info "When there is no entry points in the static configuration"

    Traefik creates a default one called `web` using the port `80` routing HTTP requests.

!!! info "When enabling the [`api.insecure`](../../operations/api/#insecure) mode, Traefik exposes the dashboard on the port `8080`."
```

> A deployment manages scaling and then can create a tons of containers, called Pods.
> Each pod is configured following the `spec` field in the deployment.
> Given that it can exist a lot of Traefik instances, a piece is required to forward the traffic
> to any of the instance: a [`Service`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/service-resources/service-v1/#Service).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A deployment manages scaling and then can create lots of containers, called [Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/).
Each pod is configured following the `spec` field in the deployment.
Given that it can exist a lot of Traefik instances,
a piece is required to forward the traffic to any of the instance:
a [`Service`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/service-resources/service-v1/#Service).
```

> This process is called load balancing.

Reviewer: Which process?

Create a file called `02-traefik-services.yml` and insert the two `Service` resources:

```yaml tab="02-traefik-services.yml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: traefik-dashboard-service

spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      targetPort: dashboard
  selector:
    app: traefik
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: traefik-web-service

spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
    - targetPort: web
      port: 80
  selector:
    app: traefik
```

> !!! warning
>     It is possible to expose a service in different manners. Depending on your working environment and use case,
>     the `spec.type` might change. It is strongly recommended understanding the available [service types](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! warning "It is possible to expose a service in different manners."

    Depending on your working environment and use case,
    the `spec.type` might change.
    It is strongly recommended to understand the available [service types](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types).
```

> Traefik has an account and permissions.
> Traefik has a deployment.
> Traefik can be exposed outside the cluster.
> Traefik is ready to start.
> 
> Apply the files on your cluster to start Traefik.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is now time to apply those files on your cluster to start Traefik.
```

```shell
kubectl apply -f 00-role.yml \
              -f 00-account.yml \
              -f 01-role-binding.yml \
              -f 02-traefik.yml \
              -f 02-traefik-services.yml
```

## Proxying applications

> The missing part, now, is the business application behind the reverse-proxy.
> For this guide, [traefik/whoami](https://github.com/traefik/whoami) is used,
> but the concepts are equivalent for any other application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The now missing part is the business application behind the reverse proxy.
For this guide, [traefik/whoami](https://github.com/traefik/whoami) is used,
but the concepts are equivalent to any other application.
```

> Whoami is a simple HTTP server running on the port 80 which answers host related information
> to the incoming requests. As usual, start by creating a file called `03-whoami.yml` and
> paste the following `Deployment` resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `whoami` application is a simple HTTP server running on port 80 which answers host-related information to the incoming requests.
As usual, start by creating a file called `03-whoami.yml` and
paste the following `Deployment` resource:
```

```yaml tab="03-whoami.yml"
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: whoami
  labels:
    app: whoami

spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: whoami
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: whoami
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: whoami
          image: traefik/whoami
          ports:
            - name: web
              containerPort: 80
```

And continue by creating the following `Service` resource in a file called `03-whoami-services.yml`:

```yaml tab="03-whoami-services.yml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: whoami

spec:
  ports:
    - name: web
      port: 80
      targetPort: web
      
  selector:
    app: whoami
```

> Thanks to the Kubernetes API, Traefik is notified when an Ingress resource is created, updated or deleted.
> It makes the process very dynamic. The ingresses are, in a way,
> the [dynamic configuration](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/providers/kubernetes-ingress/) for Traefik.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the Kubernetes API,
Traefik is notified when an Ingress resource is created, updated, or deleted.
It makes the process very dynamic.
The ingresses are, in a way, the [dynamic configuration](../../providers/kubernetes-ingress/) for Traefik.
```

!!! tip
    Find more information on [IngressController](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/) and
    [Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) on the Kubernetes documentation.

Create a file called `04-whoami-ingresses.yml` and insert the `Ingress` resource:

```yaml tab="04-whoami-ingresses.yml"
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: whoami-ingress
spec:
  rules:
  - http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: whoami
            port:
              name: web
```

This `Ingress` configures Traefik to redirect any incoming request starting by `/` to the `whoami:80` service.

> At this point, all the configurations are ready, apply the new files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, all the configurations are ready.
It is time to apply those new files:
```

```shell
kubectl apply -f 03-whoami.yml \
              -f 03-whoami-services.yml \
              -f 04-whoami-ingresses.yml
```

> If everything is applied correctly, it should be possible to access to the `whoami` application and the traefik dashboard.
> Try to load the dashboard in a web browser: `http://<external-ip>:8080`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything is applied correctly, it should be possible to access the `whoami` application and the Traefik dashboard.
Try to load the dashboard in a web browser: `http://<external-ip>:8080`.
```

> Then try to access to call the `whoami` application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then try to access the `whoami` application:
```

---
title: "Traefik Getting Started Quickly With Kubernetes"
description: "Looking to get started with Traefik Proxy quickly? Read the technical documentation to learn a simple use case that leverages Kubernetes."
---

# Quick Start

A Simple Use Case Using Kubernetes
{: .subtitle }

> Using Traefik in a Kubernetes environment could be difficult to start with.

Reviewer 2: This was probably not your intention but you agree this literally says that Traefik is difficult to use on Kubernetes?
I suggest rephrasing it so we don't scare newcomers right in the beginning 😂

The first step is to create the role.
The [`ClusterRole`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authorization-resources/cluster-role-v1/#ClusterRole) resource enumerates the resources and actions
available for the role. In a file called `00-role.yml`, put the following `ClusterRole`:

```yaml tab="00-role.yml"
kind: ClusterRole
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: traefik-role

rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - services
      - endpoints
      - secrets
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - extensions
      - networking.k8s.io
    resources:
      - ingresses
      - ingressclasses
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - extensions
    resources:
      - ingresses/status
    verbs:
      - update
```

The next step is to create an account for Traefik.
In a file called `00-account.yml`, put the following [`ClusterAccount`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/#ServiceAccount) resource:

```yaml tab="00-account.yml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: traefik-account
```

> And then, the last operation consists in binding the role on the account to apply the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And then, it's time to bind the role on the account to apply the
```
wdyt? to avoid calling it "last operation" as it is the last only for the RBAC control context

permissions and rules on the latter. In a file called `01-role-binding.yml`, put the
following [`ClusterRoleBinding`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authorization-resources/cluster-role-binding-v1/#ClusterRoleBinding) resource:

```yaml tab="01-role-binding.yml"
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: traefik-role-binding

roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: traefik-role
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: traefik-account
    namespace: default # Using "default" because we didn't specify a namespace when creating the ClusterAccount.
```

!!! info
    
    `roleRef` is the kubernetes reference to the role created in `00-role.yml`.
    
    `subjects` is the list of accounts reference. In the guilde, it
    only contains the account created in `00-account.yml`

## Deployment and Exposition

> The ingress controller (reverse proxy) is a software that runs in the same way as any other application on a cluster.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't really explain what is an ingress controller.
WYDT of taking inspiration from or even linking directly to our glossary page?
https://traefik.io/glossary/kubernetes-ingress-and-ingress-controller-101/

The missing part, now, is the business application behind the reverse-proxy.
For this guide, [traefik/whoami](https://github.com/traefik/whoami) is used,
but the concepts are equivalent for any other application.

Whoami is a simple HTTP server running on the port 80 which answers host related information
to the incoming requests. As usual, start by creating a file called `03-whoami.yml` and
paste the following `Deployment` resource:

```yaml tab="03-whoami.yml"
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: whoami
  labels:
    app: whoami

spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: whoami
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: whoami
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: whoami
          image: traefik/whoami
          ports:
            - name: web
              containerPort: 80
```

And continue by creating the following `Service` resource in a file called `03-whoami-services.yml`:

```yaml tab="03-whoami-services.yml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: whoami

spec:
  ports:
    - name: web
      port: 80
      targetPort: web
      
  selector:
    app: whoami
```

Traefik is an ingress controller.

> An ingress controller is a software that understands Ingress resources and adapts to them.

Reviewer 2: Now it's expands on the concept of an ingress controller that was left in the air previously. If we clarify this there, on the beginning, I believe this section can be removed.

Start by creating a file called `02-traefik.yml` and paste the following `Deployment` resource:

```yaml tab="02-traefik.yml"
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: traefik-deployment
  labels:
    app: traefik

spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: traefik
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: traefik
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: traefik-account
      containers:
        - name: traefik
          image: traefik:v2.8
          args:
            - --api.insecure
            - --providers.kubernetesingress
          ports:
            - name: web
              containerPort: 80
            - name: dashboard
              containerPort: 8080
```

The deployment contains an important attribute for customizing Traefik: `args`.
These arguments are the static configuration for Traefik.
From here, it is possible to enable the dashboard,
configure entry points,
select dynamic configuration providers,
and [more](../reference/static-configuration/cli.md)...

In this deployment,
the static configuration enables the Traefik dashboard,
and uses Kubernetes native Ingress resources as router definitions to route incoming requests.

> !!! info "When there is no entry points in the static configuration"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
!!! info "When there is no entry point in the static configuration"
```

---

> title: "Traefik Getting Started Quickly With Kubernetes"

Reviewer 4: No need to add "quickly" in the title. A getting started guide implies "quickly"

> description: "Looking to get started with Traefik Proxy quickly? Read the technical documentation to learn a simple use case that leverages Kubernetes."

Reviewer 4: Same comment as above about "quickly"

---

# Quick Start

> A Simple Use Case Using Kubernetes

Reviewer 4: A Simple Use Case of Traefik Proxy and Kubernetes

{: .subtitle }

> This guide is an introduction to use of Traefik in a Kubernetes environment.

Reviewer 4: This guide is an introduction to using Traefik Proxy...

> The objective is to know how to run an application behind a Traefik reverse proxy in Kubernetes.

Reviewer 4: The objective is to learn how to...

This guide presents and explains the basic blocks required to start with Traefik such as Ingress Controller, Ingresses, Deployments, static, and dynamic configuration.

## Permissions and Accesses

Traefik uses the Kubernetes API to discover running services.

> Before being able to use the Kubernetes API,

Reviewer 4: In order to use the Kubernetes API,

Traefik needs some permissions.
This [permission mechanism](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) is based on roles defined by the cluster administrator.
The role is then bound to an account used by an application,

> Traefik in this case.

Reviewer 4: in this case, Traefik Proxy.

The first step is to create the role.
The [`ClusterRole`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authorization-resources/cluster-role-v1/#ClusterRole) resource enumerates the resources and actions
available for the role.
In a file called `00-role.yml`,
put the following `ClusterRole`:

```yaml tab="00-role.yml"
kind: ClusterRole
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: traefik-role

rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - services
      - endpoints
      - secrets
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - extensions
      - networking.k8s.io
    resources:
      - ingresses
      - ingressclasses
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - extensions
    resources:
      - ingresses/status
    verbs:
      - update
```

> !!! info "The reference for this file can be found [there](../../reference/dynamic-configuration/kubernetes-crd/#rbac)."

Reviewer 4: You can find the reference for this file [here]

> The next step is to create an account for Traefik.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The next step is to create a dedicated service account for Traefik.
```

> In a file called `00-account.yml`, put the following [`ClusterAccount`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/#ServiceAccount) resource:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In a file called `00-account.yml`, put the following [`ServiceAccount`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/service-account-v1/#ServiceAccount) resource:
```

```yaml tab="00-account.yml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: traefik-account
```

And then, bind the role on the account to apply the permissions and rules on the latter. In a file called `01-role-binding.yml`, put the
following [`ClusterRoleBinding`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authorization-resources/cluster-role-binding-v1/#ClusterRoleBinding) resource:

```yaml tab="01-role-binding.yml"
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: traefik-role-binding

roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: traefik-role
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: traefik-account
    namespace: default # Using "default" because we didn't specify a namespace when creating the ClusterAccount.
```

!!! info "`roleRef` is the Kubernetes reference to the role created in `00-role.yml`."

!!! info "`subjects` is the list of accounts reference."

    In the guide, it only contains the account created in `00-account.yml`

## Deployment and Exposition

> !!! info "This section can be managed with the help of the [Traefik helm chart](../install-traefik/#use-the-helm-chart)."

Reviewer 4: Helm chart, Helm needs to be capitalized

The [ingress controller](https://traefik.io/glossary/kubernetes-ingress-and-ingress-controller-101/#what-is-a-kubernetes-ingress-controller)
is a software that runs in the same way as any other application on a cluster.
To start Traefik on the Kubernetes cluster,
a [`Deployment`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/deployment-v1/) resource must exist to describe how to configure
and scale containers horizontally to support larger workloads.

Start by creating a file called `02-traefik.yml` and paste the following `Deployment` resource:

```yaml tab="02-traefik.yml"
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: traefik-deployment
  labels:
    app: traefik

spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: traefik
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: traefik
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: traefik-account
      containers:
        - name: traefik

>           image: traefik:v2.7

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          image: traefik:v2.8
```

          args:
            - --api.insecure
            - --providers.kubernetesingress
          ports:
            - name: web
              containerPort: 80
            - name: dashboard
              containerPort: 8080
```

The deployment contains an important attribute for customizing Traefik: `args`.
These arguments are the static configuration for Traefik.
From here, it is possible to enable the dashboard,
configure entry points,
select dynamic configuration providers,
and [more](../reference/static-configuration/cli.md)...

In this deployment,
the static configuration enables the Traefik dashboard
and uses Kubernetes native ingress resources as router definitions to route incoming requests.

!!! info "When there is no entry points in the static configuration"

    Traefik creates a default one called `web` using the port `80` routing HTTP requests.

!!! info "When enabling the [`api.insecure`](../../operations/api/#insecure) mode, Traefik exposes the dashboard on the port `8080`."

A deployment manages scaling and then can create lots of containers, called [Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/).

> Each pod is configured following the `spec` field in the deployment.

Reviewer 4: Pod is capitalized in the previous sentence. Choose the appropriate capitalization and be consistent throughout the article.

Author: ```suggestion
Each Pod is configured following the `spec` field in the deployment.
```

> Given that it can exist a lot of Traefik instances,

Reviewer 4: This sentence doesn't make sense. Do you mean "Given that pods can exist in a lot of Traefik instances"?

Author: ```suggestion
Given that a Deployment can run multiple Traefik Proxy Pods,
```

> a piece is required to forward the traffic to any of the instance:

Reviewer 4: a location?

> a [`Service`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/service-resources/service-v1/#Service).

Reviewer 4: ... to forward the traffic to any of the instances, namely a Service.

> a piece is required to forward the traffic to any of the instance:
> a [`Service`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/service-resources/service-v1/#Service).

Author: ```suggestion
a piece is required to forward the traffic to any of the instance:
namely a [`Service`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/service-resources/service-v1/#Service).
```

Create a file called `02-traefik-services.yml` and insert the two `Service` resources:

```yaml tab="02-traefik-services.yml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: traefik-dashboard-service

spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
    - port: 8080
      targetPort: dashboard
  selector:
    app: traefik
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: traefik-web-service

spec:
  type: LoadBalancer
  ports:
    - targetPort: web
      port: 80
  selector:
    app: traefik
```

> !!! warning "It is possible to expose a service in different manners."

Reviewer 4: in different ways

    Depending on your working environment and use case,
    the `spec.type` might change.

>     It is strongly recommended to understand the available [service types](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types).

Reviewer 4: ... understand the available service types before proceeding to the next step.

It is now time to apply those files on your cluster to start Traefik.

```shell
kubectl apply -f 00-role.yml \
              -f 00-account.yml \
              -f 01-role-binding.yml \
              -f 02-traefik.yml \
              -f 02-traefik-services.yml
```

## Proxying applications

> The now missing part is the business application behind the reverse proxy.

Reviewer 4: The only part still missing is the business application behind the reverse proxy.

> For this guide, [traefik/whoami](https://github.com/traefik/whoami) is used,

Reviewer 4: For this guide, we use the example application [traefik/whoaimi,

> but the concepts are equivalent to any other application.

Reviewer 4: but the principles are applicable to any other application.

The `whoami` application is a simple HTTP server running on port 80 which answers host-related information to the incoming requests.
As usual, start by creating a file called `03-whoami.yml` and
paste the following `Deployment` resource:

```yaml tab="03-whoami.yml"
kind: Deployment
apiVersion: apps/v1
metadata:
  name: whoami
  labels:
    app: whoami

spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: whoami
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: whoami
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: whoami
          image: traefik/whoami
          ports:
            - name: web
              containerPort: 80
```

And continue by creating the following `Service` resource in a file called `03-whoami-services.yml`:

```yaml tab="03-whoami-services.yml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: whoami

spec:
  ports:
    - name: web
      port: 80
      targetPort: web
      
  selector:
    app: whoami
```

Thanks to the Kubernetes API,
Traefik is notified when an Ingress resource is created, updated, or deleted.

> It makes the process very dynamic.

Reviewer 4: This makes the process dynamic.

The ingresses are, in a way, the [dynamic configuration](../../providers/kubernetes-ingress/) for Traefik.

!!! tip
    Find more information on [IngressController](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/) and

>     [Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) on the Kubernetes documentation.

Reviewer 4: ... in the official Kubernetes documentation.

Create a file called `04-whoami-ingresses.yml` and insert the `Ingress` resource:

```yaml tab="04-whoami-ingresses.yml"
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: whoami-ingress
spec:
  rules:
  - http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: whoami
            port:
              name: web
```

This `Ingress` configures Traefik to redirect any incoming request starting by `/` to the `whoami:80` service.

At this point, all the configurations are ready.
It is time to apply those new files:

```shell
kubectl apply -f 03-whoami.yml \
              -f 03-whoami-services.yml \

>               -f 04-whoami-ingresses.yml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              -f 04-whoami-ingress.yml
```

```

> If everything is applied correctly, it should be possible to access the `whoami` application and the Traefik dashboard.

Reviewer 4: Now you should be able to access ....

> Try to load the dashboard in a web browser: `http://<external-ip>:8080`.

Reviewer 4: Load the dashboard on a web browser: ...

> Then try to access the `whoami` application:

Reviewer 4: And now access the 'whoami' application:

```shell

> curl -v http://<external-ip>/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -v http://localhost/
```
